<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
	<title>WebGL Nehe Three.js - Intro</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/base.css" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fixed.css" />

	<meta name="viewport" content="width=576, height=1024"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="fxl_content" >
	<p>
	Three.js provides a series of high level APIs that allow users to easily create scenes.  Under the covers, three.js provides APIs
	that create the objects with a variety of properties.  These objects are then read and the properties are used to drive the 
	lower-level shader-oriented WebGL APIs.  The result is that the end-user can manipulate higher-level constructs while all the
	heavy-lifting is done in the shaders.  The result is the ease of JavaScript but the power of the GPU.
	</p>
	
	<h4>Structure of this Book</h4>
	This book is based on "porting" the NeHe demos to WebGL using three.js.  NeHe is an open-source forum
	and website where people have been collaborating on developing OpenGL demos and techniques since 2002.
	The result has been a series of "Lessons" (now more than 40) which demonstrate various techniques and 
	approaches with OpenGL.  The demos started with the fixed-function OpenGL 1.1 but have continues to evolve
	as OpenGL has evolved.  The demos have been ported to many different implementations of OpenGL on many 
	different platforms.  The NeHe demos provide a very good range of demonstrations of OpenGL techniques and
	approaches so the authors thought that they would provide an interesting test and learning process for
	three.js.</p>
	
	<p>The book follows the NeHe demos insofar as possible.  Some of the NeHe demos are very OpenGL 1.1 oriented, 
	and consequently aren't particularly relevant in WebGL or three.js. 
	These have been skipped in the interest of brevity.  The chapters of the Lessons consists of text and code examples 
	illustrating how the lesson was implemented using three.js and WebGL.  One of the pages in each chapter 
	(typically the second page) is a full working example of that Lesson.</p>
	
</div>	
<div id="left"/><div id="right"/><div id="top"/><div id="bottom"/>
</body>
</html>
	