<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
	<title>WebGL Nehe Three.js - Intro</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/base.css" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fixed.css" />

	<meta name="viewport" content="width=576, height=1024"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="fxl_content" >
	<h1>Introduction</h1>
	<h4>Goal of this Book</h4>
	<p>This book is an introduction to the use of WebGL and three.js.  It uses the 
	classic NeHe demos as a set of examples with which to demonstrate how to use WebGL and three.js.</p>
	<p>A secondary goal of this book is to demonstrate the use of WebGL within EPUB documents.  This is 
	actually straightforward as EPUB is based on the XML serialization of HTML5, so it should "just work".  
	However, there are a couple of caveats, which will be covered in the first lesson.</p>
	
	<h4>A Brief History of OpenGL</h4>
	
	<p>In the 1980s, developing software that could function with a wide range of graphics 
	hardware was a real challenge. Software developers wrote custom interfaces and drivers for 
	each piece of hardware. This was especially true for 3D support, which hampered development of 3D
	software.</p>

	<p>By the early 1990s, SGI was a leader in 3D graphics for workstations. Their IRIS 
	GL API[14] was considered state-of-the-art and became the de facto industry standard. An 
	alternative was PHIGS, which was supported by Sun, H-P and others.  However, PHIGS was 
	considered out-dated and hard to use.</p>

	<p> In an effort to influence the market, SGI decided to turn the IrisGL API 
	into an open standard: OpenGL. This was not entirely popular with SGI's own customers, 
	much less Sun, HP and others. </p> 

	<p>One of the restrictions of IrisGL, and OpenGL, was that it only provided access to features supported 
	by the underlying hardware. If the graphics hardware did not support a feature, then 
	the application could not use it.  OpenGL tried to fix this by providing software support
	for the features not supported by hardware.  Moreover, the hardware varied across platforms, so 
	OpenGL added profiles to support different capabilities.  The result of these two approaches 
	was a bewildering babel of APIs and profiles.
	</p>
	
	<p>Nonetheless, OpenGL did provide a somewhat independent way of supporting 3D but clearly some
	standardization was required. So, in 1992, SGI led the creation of the OpenGL Architecture Review Board 
	(OpenGL ARB), the organization that would maintain and expand the OpenGL specification in the future. 
	Meanwhile, Microsoft released Direct3D in 1995, which eventually became the main competitor of OpenGL. 
	Eventually, in July 2006 the OpenGL Architecture Review Board voted to transfer control of the OpenGL 
	API standard to the Khronos Group.</p>

	<p>The early efforts were based on many different hardware platforms, many with dedicated 3D hardware, or specialized
	CPUs that were used to render the 3D software, however, in the late 90s came the advent of the 
	GPU, from NVidia and others.  These chips revolutionized 3D rendering. They didn't consist of one or more central
	processors.  Instead, they were highly parallel, comprising thousands (and nowadays hundreds of thousands) of 
	processor units that can work in parallel. This immense change led to a major evolution of OpenGL</p>
	
	<p>The original architecture of OpenGL was based on relatively high level constructs that were intended to hide the underlying
	hardware.  So one could specify shapes, colors, etc. in a way that made sense to a human. On the other hand, the GPUs were 
	so different that the old way of specifying shapes didn't map to the GPUs.  So instead, a new intermediate language, the shader 
	language arose.  The original OpenGL was then superseded by the new OpenGL based on shader languages, OpenGL-ES (extended shader 
	language).  This was great in one way, but writing programs in shader language was not for the faint-hearted and because all 
	execution occurred on the GPUs, it was very hard to debug.</p>
	
	<p>While all this was going on, the Web continued to explode, with HTML5, CSS3 and SVG.  And because the cost of GPUs was falling 
	(following Moore's law) the power of 3D was starting to reach even low-powered, relatively cheap phones and tablets.  There was 
	obviously a need for some easier way to use all this power and put it into the hands of WEB developers who might know JavaScript but
	had no desire to learn how to program in shader language.</p>
	
	<p>Several efforts have been made to create a JavaScript library that would allow Web developers to access the 3D capabilites.  One of
	the most complete and popular at present is threed.js.</p>
	
</div>	
<div id="left"/><div id="right"/><div id="top"/><div id="bottom"/>
</body>
</html>
